federalist 64
the powers of the senate from the new
york packet
friday march 7 1788
jay
to the people of the state of new york
it is a just and not a new observation
that enemies to particular persons and
opponents to particular measures seldom
confine their censures to such things
only and either as are worthy of blame
unless on this principle it is difficult
to explain the motives of their conduct
who condemn the proposed constitution in
the aggregate and treat with severity
some of the most unexceptionable
articles in it
the second section gives power to the
president by and with the advice and
consent of the senate to make treaties
provided two-thirds of the senator's
present concur
the power of making treaties is an
important one especially as it relates
to war peace and commerce and it should
not be delegated but in such a mode and
with such precautions as will afford the
highest security that it will be
exercised by men the best qualified for
the purpose and in the matter most
conducive to the public good
the convention appears to have been
attentive to both these points they have
directed the president to be chosen by
select bodies of electors to be deputed
by the people for that express purpose
and they have committed the appointment
of senators to the state legislatures
this mode has in such cases vastly the
advantage of elections by the people in
their collective capacity where the
activity of party zeal taking advantage
of the supineness the ignorance and the
hopes and fears of the unwary and
interested often places men in office by
the votes of a small proportion of the
electors
as the select assemblies for choosing
the president as well as the state
legislatures who appoint the senators
will in general be composed of the most
enlightened and respectable citizens
there is reason to presume that their
attention and their votes will be
directed to those men only who have
become the most distinguished by their
abilities and virtue and in whom the
people perceive just grounds for
confidence
the constitution manifests very
particular attention to this object by
excluding men under 35 from the first
office and those under 30 from the
second it confines the electors to men
of whom the people have had time to form
a judgment and with respect to whom they
will not be liable to be deceived by
those brilliant appearances of genius
and patriotism which like transient
meteors sometimes mislead as well as
dazzle
if the observation be well founded that
wise kings will always be served by able
ministers it is fair to argue that an
assembly of select electors possess in a
greater degree than kings the means of
extensive and accurate information
relative to men and characters so will
their appointments bear at least equal
marks of discretion and discernment
the inference which naturally results
from these considerations is this that
the president and senators so chosen
will always be of the number of those
who best understand our national
interests whether considered in relation
to the several states or to foreign
nations who are best able to promote
those interests and whose reputation for
integrity inspires and merits confidence
with such men the power of making
treaties may be safely lodged
although the absolute necessity of
system in the conduct of any business is
universally known and acknowledged yet
the high importance of it in national
affairs has not yet become sufficiently
impressed on the public mind
they who wish to commit the power under
consideration to a popular assembly
composed of members constantly coming
and going in quick succession seem not
to recollect that such a body must
necessarily be inadequate to the
attainment of those great objects which
require to be steadily contemplated in
all their relations and circumstances
and which can only be approached and
achieved by measures which not only
talents but also exact information and
often much time are necessary to concert
and execute
it was wise therefore in the convention
to provide not only that the power of
making treaties should be committed to
able and honest men but also that they
should continue in place a sufficient
time to become perfectly acquainted with
our national concerns and to form and
introduce a system for the management of
them the duration prescribed is such as
will give them an opportunity of greatly
extending their political information
and of rendering their accumulating
experience more and more beneficial to
their country
nor has the convention discovered less
prudence in providing for the frequent
elections of senators in such a way as
to obviate the inconvenience of
periodically transferring those great
affairs entirely to new men for by
leaving a considerable residue of the
old ones in place uniformity and order
as well as a constant succession of
official information will be preserved
there are a few who will not admit that
the affairs of trade and navigation
should be regulated by a system
cautiously formed and steadily pursued
and that both our treaties and our laws
should correspond with and be made to
promote it
it is of much consequence that this
correspondence and conformity be
carefully maintained and they who ascend
to the truth of this position will see
and confess that it is well provided for
by making concurrence of the senate
necessary both to treaties and to laws
it seldom happens in the negotiation of
treaties of whatever nature but that
perfect secrecy and immediate dispatch
are sometimes requisite
these are cases where the most useful
intelligence may be obtained if the
person's possessing it can be relieved
from apprehensions of discovery
those apprehensions will operate on
those persons whether they are actuated
by mercenary or friendly motives and
their doubtless are many of both
descriptions who would rely on the
secrecy of the president but who had not
confided in that of the senate and still
less in that of a large popular assembly
the convention have done well therefore
in so disposing of the power of making
treaties that although the president
must informing them act by the advice
and consent of the senate yet he will be
able to manage the business of
intelligence in such a manner as
prudence may suggest
they who have turned their attention to
the affairs of men must have perceived
that there are tides in them tides very
irregular in their duration strength and
direction and seldom found to run twice
exactly in the same manner or measure
to discern and to profit by these tides
in national affairs is the business of
those who preside over them and they who
have had much experience on this head
inform us that there frequently are
occasions when days nay even when hours
are precious the loss of a battle the
death of a prince the removal of a
minister or other circumstances
intervening to change the present
posture and aspect of affairs may turn
the most favorable tide into a course
opposite to our wishes
as in the field so in the cabinet there
are moments to be seized as they pass
and they who preside in either should be
left in capacity to improve them
so often and so essentially have we here
heretofore suffered from the want of
secrecy and dispatch that the
constitution would have been inexcusably
defective if no attention had been paid
to those objects
those matters which in negotiations
usually require the most secrecy and the
most dispatch are those preparatory and
auxiliary measures which are not
otherwise important in a national view
than as they tend to facilitate the
attainment of the objects of the
negotiation
for these the president will find no
difficulty to provide and should any
circumstances occur which require the
advice and consent of the senate he may
at any time convene them
thus we see that the constitution
provides that our negotiations for
treaties shall have every advantage
which can be derived from talents
information integrity and deliberative
investigations on the one hand and from
secrecy and dispatch on the other
but to this plan as to most others that
have ever appeared objections are
contrived and urged
some are displeased with it not an
account of any errors or defects in it
but because as the treaties when made
are to have the force of laws they
should be made only by men invested with
legislative authority
these gentlemen seem not to consider
that the judgments of our courts and the
commissions constitutionally given by
our governor are as valid and as binding
on all persons whom they concern as the
laws passed by our legislature
all constitutional acts of power whether
in the executive or in the judicial
department have as much legal validity
and obligation as if they proceeded from
the legislature and therefore whatever
name be given to the power of making
treaties or however obligatory they may
be when made certain it is that the
people may with much propriety commit a
power to a distinct body from the
legislature the executive or the
judicial
it surely does not follow that because
they have given the power of making laws
to the legislature that therefore they
should likewise give them the power to
do every other act of sovereignty by
which the citizens are to be bound and
affected
others though content that treaties
should be made in the mode proposed are
averse to there being the supreme laws
of the land they insist and profess to
believe that treaties like acts of
assembly should be repealable at
pleasure this idea seems to be new and
peculiar to this country but new errors
as well as new truths often appear
these gentlemen would do well to reflect
that a treaty is only another name for a
bargain and that it would be impossible
to find a nation who would make any
bargain with us which should be binding
on them absolutely but on us only so
long and so far as we may think proper
to be bound by it
they who make laws may without a doubt
amend or repeal them and it will not be
disputed that they who make treaties may
alter or cancel them
but still let us not forget that
treaties are made not by only one of the
contracting parties but by both and
consequently that as the consent of both
was essential to their formation at
first so must it ever afterwards be to
alter or cancel them
the proposed constitution therefore has
not in the least extended the obligation
of treaties they are just as binding and
just as far beyond the lawful reach of
legislative acts now as they will be at
any future period or under any form of
government
however useful jealousy may be in
republics yet when like bile in the
natural it abounds too much in the body
politic the eyes of both become very
liable to be deceived by the delusive
appearances which that malady casts on
surrounding objects
from this cause probably precedes the
fears and apprehensions of some that the
president and senate may make treaties
without an equal eye to the interests of
all the states
others suspect that two-thirds will
oppress the remaining third and ask
whether those gentlemen are made
sufficiently responsible for their
conduct whether if they act corruptly
they can be punished and if they make
disadvantageous treaties how are we to
get rid of those treaties
as all the states are equally
represented in the senate and by men the
most able and the most willing to
promote the interests of their
constituents they will all have an equal
degree of influence in that body
especially while they continue to be
careful in appointing proper persons and
to insist on their punctual attendance
in proportion is the united states
assume a national form and a national
character so will the good of the whole
be more and more an object of attention
and the government must be a weak one
indeed if it should forget that the good
of the whole can only be promoted by
advancing the good of each of the parts
or members which compose the whole it
will not be in the power of the
president and senate to make any
treaties by which they and their
families and estates will not be equally
bound and affected with the rest of the
community and having no private
interests distinct from that of the
nation they will be under no temptations
to neglect the latter
as to corruption the case is not
supposable
he must either have been very
unfortunate in his intercourse with the
world or possess a heart very
susceptible of such impressions who can
think it probable that the president and
two-thirds of the senate will ever be
capable of such unworthy conduct
the idea is too gross and too invidious
to be entertained
but in such a case if it should ever
happen the treaty so obtained from us
would like all other fraudulent
contracts be null and void by the law of
nations
with respect to their responsibility it
is difficult to conceive how it could be
increased every consideration that can
influence the human mind such as honor
oaths reputations conscience the love of
country and family affections and
attachments afford security for their
fidelity
in short as the constitution has taken
the utmost care that they shall be men
of talents and integrity we have reason
to be persuaded that the treaties they
make will be as advantageous as all
circumstances considered could be made
and so far as the fear of punishment and
disgrace can operate that motive to good
behavior is amply afforded by the
article on the subject of impeachments
publius